Eip 3475 final patch (#5385)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-3475.md

eip: 3475
title: Abstract Storage Bonds
description: Interface for creating tokenized obligations with abstract on-chain metadata storage

> author: Yu Liu (@yuliu-debond), Varun Deshpande (@dr-chain), Cedric Ngakam (@drikssy), Dhruv Malik (@GrandGarcon), Samuel Gwlanold Edoumou(@Edoumou), Toufic Batrice (@toufic0710)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Yu Liu (@yuliu-debond), Varun Deshpande (@dr-chain), Cedric Ngakam (@drikssy), Dhruv Malik (@GrandGarcon), Samuel Gwlanold Edoumou (@Edoumou), Toufic Batrice (@toufic0710)
```

> author: Yu Liu (@yuliu-debond), Varun Deshpande (@dr-chain), Cedric Ngakam (@drikssy), Dhruv Malik (@GrandGarcon), Samuel Gwlanold Edoumou (@Edoumou), Toufic Batrice (@toufic0710)

Reviewer 2: @Edoumou I imagine this change is legit but I'd like to double-check this.

Author: sure so for that you need hisverification , @edoumou  can  verify you in DM .

discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-3475-multiple-callable-bonds-standard/8691
status: Final
type: Standards Track
category: ERC

> created: 2021-04-05

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
created: 2021-04-05
requires: 20, 721
```
```suggestion
created: 2021-04-05
requires: 20, 721, 1155
```

Depending on whether you specify compatibility with 1155 or not.

Author: ah its weird, in my current branch its already added status: Final

eip: 3475
title: Abstract Storage Bonds
description: Interface for creating tokenized obligations with abstract on-chain metadata storage
author: Yu Liu (@yuliu-debond), Varun Deshpande (@dr-chain), Cedric Ngakam (@drikssy), Dhruv Malik (@GrandGarcon), Samuel Gwlanold Edoumou (@Edoumou), Toufic Batrice (@toufic0710)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-3475-multiple-callable-bonds-standard/8691
status: Final
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2021-04-05
requires: 20, 721, 1155
---

## Abstract

> This API standard allows the creation of tokenized obligations with abstract on-chain metadata storage. Issuing bonds with multiple redemption data cannot be achieved with existing token standards. This proposal enables each bond class ID to represent a new configurable token type and corresponding to each class, corresponding bond nonces to represent an issuing condition or any other form of data in uint256. Every single nonce of a bond class can have its metadata, supply, and other redemption conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP allows the creation of tokenized obligations with abstract on-chain metadata storage. Issuing bonds with multiple redemption data cannot be achieved with existing token standards. This EIP enables each bond class ID to represent a new configurable token type and corresponding to each class, corresponding bond nonces to represent an issuing condition or any other form of data in uint256. Every single nonce of a bond class can have its metadata, supply, and other redemption conditions.
```

> ## Motivation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Motivation

```

Current LP (Liquidity Provider) tokens are simple [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens with no complex data structure. To allow more complex reward and redemption logic to be stored on-chain, we need a new token standard that:

 - Supports multiple token IDs
 - Can store on-chain metadata
 - Doesn't require a fixed storage pattern
 - Is gas-efficient.

> This EIP allows the creation of any obligation with the same interface. It will enable any 3rd party wallet applications or exchanges to read these tokens' balance and redemption conditions. These bonds can also be batched as tradeable instruments. Those instruments can then be divided and exchanged in secondary markets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The reason behind the standard's name (abstract storage bond) is its ability to store all the specifications (metadata/values and transaction as defined in the following sections) without needing external storage on-chain/off-chain. 

Reviewer 2: This should be moved to the rationale.

> The functions defined in this EIP provide a gas-efficient solution for creating, trading, and burning bonds. They offer more optimization options for existing AMM pools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
If anything, this should be moved to the rationale and mentioned as a trade-off.

> The bonds can also be batched for issuance/redemption conditions for efficiency on gas costs and UX side .And finally, bonds created from this standard can be divided and exchanged in a secondary market.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Should be in the Abstract, if anything.

> 

Reviewer 2: For the line above (L15), I would prefer the following wording change:

```md
This EIP allows the creation of tokenized obligations with abstract on-chain metadata storage. Issuing bonds with multiple redemption data cannot be achieved with existing token standards. This EIP enables each bond class ID to represent a new configurable token type and corresponding to each class, corresponding bond nonces to represent an issuing condition or any other form of data in uint256. Every single nonce of a bond class can have its metadata, supply, and other redemption conditions.
```

## Motivation

> Current LP tokens are simple [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens with no complex data structure. To allow more complex reward and redemption logic to be stored on-chain, we need a new token standard that can manage:

Reviewer 2: Define LP please.

> Current LP tokens are simple [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens with no complex data structure. To allow more complex reward and redemption logic to be stored on-chain, we need a new token standard that can manage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Current LP tokens are simple [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens with no complex data structure. To allow more complex reward and redemption logic to be stored on-chain, we need a new token standard that:
```

>  - Multidimensional token ID.
>  - Store on-chain metadata.
>  - Non-specified and flexible storage.
>  - Gas efficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Supports multiple token IDs
 - Can store on-chain metadata
 - Doesn't require a fixed storage pattern
 - Is gas-efficient.
```

> This proposal allows the creation of any obligation with the same interface. It will enable any 3rd party wallet applications or exchanges to read these tokens balance and redemption conditions. These bonds can also be batched as tradeable instruments. Those instruments can then be divided and exchanged in secondary markets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP allows the creation of any obligation with the same interface. It will enable any 3rd party wallet applications or exchanges to read these tokens' balance and redemption conditions. These bonds can also be batched as tradeable instruments. Those instruments can then be divided and exchanged in secondary markets.
```
```suggestion
This proposal allows the creation of any obligation with the same interface. It will enable any 3rd party wallet applications or exchanges to read these tokens' balance and redemption conditions. These bonds can also be batched as tradeable instruments. Those instruments can then be divided and exchanged in secondary markets.
```
`This EIP` is a nit, but `tokens'` is required. Pick your poison.

Author: i included your suggestion

The reason behind the standard's name (abstract storage bond) is its ability to store all the specifications (metadata/values and transaction as defined in the following sections) without needing external storage on-chain/off-chain. 

The functions defined in this EIP provide a gas-efficient solution for creating, trading, and burning bonds. They offer more optimization options for existing AMM pools.

The bonds can also be batched for issuance/redemption conditions for efficiency on gas costs and UX side .And finally, bonds created from this standard can be divided and exchanged in a secondary market.

## Specification

**Definition**

Bank: an entity that issues, redeems, or burns bonds after getting the necessary amount of liquidity. Generally, a single entity with admin access to the pool.

**Functions**

```solidity

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

```
Please re-add the solidity version, it does help.

**Batch function:**

>  This EIP supports batch operations such as batch transactions. It allows the user to transfer different bonds along with their metadata to a new address instantaneously in a single txn. And after execution, the new owner holds the right to reclaim the face value of each of the bonds. This mechanism helps in the "packaging" of bonds which is helpful in use cases like trades on a secondary market.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 This EIP supports batch operations. It allows the user to transfer different bonds along with their metadata to a new address instantaneously in a single transaction. After execution, the new owner holds the right to reclaim the face value of each of the bonds. This mechanism helps with the "packaging" of bonds–helpful in use cases like trades on a secondary market.
```

## Backwards Compatibility

> Any contract that inherits the interface of this EIP  is compatible. This  compatibility exists for issuer and receiver of the bonds. Also any client EOA wallet can be compatible with the standard if they are able to sign `issue()` and `redeem()` commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> However, any existing [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) token contract can issue its bonds by delegating the minting role to a bank contract with the interface of this standard built-in. Check out our reference implementation for the correct interface definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Existing [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) token contracts can issue bonds by delegating the minting role to a bank contract.
```

> To ensure the reading of transactions, "Issue", "Redeem", "Burn" and "Transfer", events cited above MUST be emitted when such transaction is passed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This should be part of the specification. If this isn't in there, please move it.

> **Note that the this standard interface is also compatible with [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) and [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) and [EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md)interface.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**This standard interface is compatible with [EIP-20](./eip-20.md), [EIP-721](./eip-721.md), and [EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md).**
```

However, creating a separate bank contract is recommended for reading the bonds and future upgrade needs.

Acceptable collateral can be in the form of [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens, [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) tokens, or other bonds represented by the standard.Thus bonds can now represent a collection of collaterals (of the same type) of all fungible/non-fungible or semi-fungible tokens.

## Test Cases

> Test-case for the minimal reference implementation is available [here](../assets/eip-3475/ERC3475.test.ts). Use the Truffle box to compile and test the contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test cases for the reference implementation are available [here](../assets/eip-3475/ERC3475.test.ts).
```

## Reference Implementation

- [Interface](../assets/eip-3475/interfaces/IERC3475.sol).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- [Basic Example](../assets/eip-3475/ERC3475.sol).

>       - This demonstration shows only minimalist implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Security Considerations

- The `function setApprovalFor()` gives the operator role in this standard. It has all the permissions to transfer, burn and redeem bonds by default.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - If the owner wants to give a one-time allocation to an address for specific bonds(classId,bondsId), he should call the `function approve()` giving the `Transaction[]` allocated rather than approving all the classes using `setApprovalFor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the owner wants to give a one-time allocation to an address for specific `bonds(classId,bondsId)`, he should call the `function approve()` giving the `Transaction[]` allocated rather than approving all the classes using `setApprovalFor`.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - The `function issue()` can only be called by the bank contract (what we call issuer in this EIP). this can be either a smart contract managing the logic of liquidity management and routing the collateral, but also EOA multi-sig.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `function issue()` can only be called by the issuing contract. The authentication mechanism is unspecified, however, and could conceivably range from fully automated smart contracts to multisigns.
```

## Backwards Compatibility

Any contract that inherits the interface of this EIP  is compatible. This  compatibility exists for issuer and receiver of the bonds. Also any client EOA wallet can be compatible with the standard if they are able to sign `issue()` and `redeem()` commands.

However, any existing [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) token contract can issue its bonds by delegating the minting role to a bank contract with the interface of this standard built-in. Check out our reference implementation for the correct interface definition.

To ensure the reading of transactions, "Issue", "Redeem", "Burn" and "Transfer", events cited above MUST be emitted when such transaction is passed.

> **Note that the this standard interface is also compatible with [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) and [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) interface.**

Reviewer 2: What about EIP-1155, another commonly-used token standard?

Author: yes indeed it can be . the given were example but we can mention

## Test Cases

Test-case for the minimal reference implementation is available [here](../assets/eip-3475/ERC3475.test.ts). Use the Truffle box to compile and test the contracts.

## Reference Implementation

- [Interface](../assets/eip-3475/interfaces/IERC3475.sol).

- [Basic Example](../assets/eip-3475/ERC3475.sol).
      - This demonstration shows only minimalist implementation.

## Security Considerations

- The `function setApprovalFor()` gives the operator role in this standard. It has all the permissions to transfer, burn and redeem bonds by default.

- If the owner wants to give a one-time allocation to an address for specific bonds(classId,bondsId), he should call the `function approve()` giving the `Transaction[]` allocated rather than approving all the classes using `setApprovalFor`.

- The `function issue()` can only be called by the bank contract (what we call issuer in this EIP). this can be either a smart contract managing the logic of liquidity management and routing the collateral, but also EOA multi-sig.

## Copyright

> Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

Reviewer 2: What was the change here?
